Could not fetch content
India’s initial findings into the crash of an Air India aircraft last month raise more questions, according to the airline’s chief executive officer, who defended the fitness of the cockpit crew and the company’s track record of inspecting its fleet.

A preliminary report filed by the country’s Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau last week showed that two fuel switches in the cockpit that were moved to a cutoff position caused the Boeing 787 to crash 32 seconds after takeoff from Ahmedabad on June 12.

“Unsurprisingly, it provided both greater clarity and opened additional questions,” Air India CEO Campbell Wilson wrote to employees in an internal memo reviewed by Bloomberg News. He also noted that the report found no mechanical or maintenance issues with the aircraft or engines, and that all mandatory inspections had been completed.

There was no issue with the quality of fuel and no abnormality with the takeoff roll, Wilson wrote. The pilots had passed their mandatory preflight breath test and there were no observations pertaining to their medical status, he said.

Air India didn’t immediately respond to an emailed request for comments.

Advertising

According to AAIB’s report, Clive Kunder, a pilot with roughly 1,100 flight hours on Boeing’s most advanced jet, was flying the plane. The report identified him as pilot flying, while Sumeet Sabharwal, the more experienced and senior cockpit occupant in command, was pilot monitoring for the flight. It’s common for a captain and co-pilot to switch flying duties, particularly on longer journeys.

While the report replayed the takeoff sequence in detail, several elements remain unclear. For example, the report didn’t identify which pilot asked the other why he had turned off the fuel switches. There’s also no additional communication transcript from the flight deck beyond that brief exchange.

Some pilots who reviewed the report also noted that turning off the fuel switches took only one second, but turning them back on took much longer — 10 seconds for the first one and another four for the second switch — resulting in too little time to get enough thrust back up to save the aircraft.

Investigators also said that they found no evidence so far that would require them to take actions over the Boeing aircraft or the GE Aerospace engines powering it.

“At this stage of investigation, there are no recommended actions to B787-8 and/or GE GEnx-1B engine operators and manufacturers,” according to the AAIB report.

More stories like this are available on bloomberg.com

©2025 Bloomberg L.P.
