Donald Trump European Union Tariffs Prescription drugs See all topics Follow

President Donald Trump announced Sunday that the United States and the European Union reached a framework for a trade deal, ending a monthslong saga with America’s largest trading partner.

Trump announced a 15% levy on most imports from the 27-nation European Union, including automobiles, pharmaceuticals and semiconductors, after talks with European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen in Turnberry, Scotland.

Speaking alongside von der Leyen at his golf course on the western coast of Scotland, Trump said the EU agreed to purchase $750 billion worth of energy from the US, and invest $600 billion more in the US.

“All of the countries will be opened up to trade with the United States at zero tariffs, and they’re agreeing to purchase a vast amount of military equipment,” Trump added.

While specifics of the deal have not been disclosed, Trump touted the agreement with the bloc as “the biggest deal ever made.” Von der Leyen said the deal would bring “stability” and “predictability,” and other European leaders have largely welcomed the development.

Collectively, the EU and the US exchanged $975 billion worth of goods last year, according to US Commerce Department data. The trade deal, while far from final, lowers the risk of a transatlantic trade war that would have ramifications for the global economy.

Trump began talks with von der Leyen earlier Sunday as Friday’s deadline loomed to reach an agreement to avoid 30% tariffs on European imports. The European Union had sought to keep baseline tariffs at 10%, while Trump had said the United States could not go lower than a 15% across-the-board tariff rate for the bloc.

Von der Leyen acknowledged negotiations with Trump were tough: “I knew it at the beginning, and it was indeed very tough. But we came to a good conclusion for both sides.”

Germany’s Chancellor Friedrich Merz posted on X, saying European negotiators’ hard work had paid off. “A trade conflict has been averted that would have severely impacted the export-oriented German economy,” he said.

Italy’s Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni said it was “positive” that a trade deal has been struck between the EU and the US, but said she needed to see the details, Reuters reported.

The Irish Prime Minister, Taoiseach Micheál Martin, also welcomed the deal, saying it was “good for businesses, consumers and investors” on X. But he conceded that bilateral trade would still become “more challenging” with the now higher tariff.

The 15% tariffs on all goods include pharmaceuticals, the No. 1 ($155 billion) good the US imported from the European Union last year, according to US Commerce Department data. Trump had repeatedly suggested he would put a 200% tariff on pharmaceuticals that are manufactured outside the United States — the vast majority of US drugs — starting August 1.

Ireland, a member of the EU, is the top single foreign country supplying the United States with pharmaceuticals.

“Pharmaceuticals are very special. We can’t be in a position where we’re relying on other countries,” Trump said.

The framework comes after Trump previously issued a tariff letter to the EU, announcing duties on most EU goods would rise from the 10% universal baseline to 30% on August 1, as the US and European Union had one of the “largest trade deficits” and had failed to reach a deal by his previous July 9 deadline.

In April, EU goods briefly faced a 20% “reciprocal” tariff before Trump paused those levies. And in May, Trump, citing a lack of progress in trade talks, said he was prepared to slap a 50% tariff on EU goods on June 1. “I’m not looking for a deal,” he said at the time.

Investors welcomed Sunday’s deal. Europe’s benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 index rose to its highest level in more than four months on Monday. The index was trading 0.68% higher by early morning ET.

Germany’s DAX and France’s CAC 40 indexes were up 0.47% and 0.82%, respectively.

Deal or no deal deadline looming

Trump reaffirmed the Friday deadline for other trading partners and said steel and aluminum tariffs will remain at their current rates of 50%.

Sitting alongside Trump, Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnick said tariffs on semiconductors will be announced in two weeks. It’s unclear when those could take effect.

Lutnick had said in an interview on “Fox News Sunday” that there would be no further extensions or grace periods after August 1. But he raised the prospect of potentially some wiggle room, saying “big economies” can continue trade talks with the United States.

“August 1, the tariffs are set. They’ll go into place,” Lutnick said.

Some of the tariffs that Trump has threatened go as high as 50%. South Korea, a major supplier of electronics and other goods, faces the threat of 30% tariffs, while Brazil could face tariffs of 50%.

Meanwhile, the United States and China are nearing an August 12 deadline to reach a trade deal. The United States has been charging Chinese goods a tariff of around 50%, down from 145%, while China has been taxing American goods at a minimum of 10%, down from 125%.

Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent is expected to meet with Chinese negotiators this week in Stockholm for another round of trade talks, eyeing further extension of their trade truce reached in Geneva in May.

At the start of the meeting with von der Leyen on Sunday, Trump said the US is “very close to a deal with China.”

“We really sort of made a deal with China, but we’ll see how that goes,” he said.

Since Trump paused other “reciprocal” tariffs in April to provide more time to work on securing trade deals, only seven trade agreements have been announced, including the one with the EU on Sunday.

This story and headline have been updated with additional developments.

CNN’s Jonny Hallam and Anna Cooban contributed to this report.
The US-EU trade deal, clinched in a ballroom at Donald Trump’s golf resort in Scotland on Sunday, has been criticised by France’s prime minister and business leaders across Germany.

The deal, which will impose 15% tariffs on almost all European exports to the US including cars, ends the threat of a punitive 30% import duties being imposed on Trump’s 1 August deadline for a deal, but it is a world apart from the zero-zero import and export tariff the EU offered initially.

It also means European exporters to the US will face more then triple the average 4.8% tariff now in force, with negotiations to continue on steel, which is still facing a 50% tariff, aviation, and a question mark over future barriers to pharmaceutical exports.

France’s prime minister, François Bayrou, said Europe had submitted to the US, on a “dark day” for the union.

“It is a dark day when an alliance of free peoples, gathered to affirm their values and defend their interests, resolves to submission,” Bayrou posted on X.

Accord Van der Leyen-Trump : c'est un jour sombre que celui où une alliance de peuples libres, rassemblés pour affirmer leurs valeurs et défendre leurs intérêts, se résout à la soumission. — François Bayrou (@bayrou) July 28, 2025

The German chancellor, Friedrich Merz, rapidly hailed the deal, saying it avoided “needless escalation in transatlantic trade relations” and averted a potentially damaging trade war.

German exporters were less enthusiastic. The powerful BDI federation of industrial groups said the accord would have “considerable negative repercussions”, while the country’s VCI chemical trade association said the accord left rates “too high”.

It is also clear that the US tariff of 15% on automotive products will place a burden on German automotive companies in the midst of their transformation, hitting sales and profits.

The president of the car industry federation VDA, Hildegard Müller, said it was “fundamentally positive” that a framework deal was agreed but warned of huge costs to come.

European stock markets hit a four-month high at the start of trading on Monday, amid relief that a deal had been reached. Germany’s Dax jumped by 0.86%, and France’s Cac 40 index rose by 1.1%.

Ireland, one of the EU’s top exporters to the US, said on Sunday it welcomed the deal for bringing “a measure of much-needed certainty”, but that it “regrets” the baseline tariff, in a statement by its deputy prime minister, Simon Harris.

France’s minister for Europe, Benjamin Haddad, said on Monday that the agreement would provide “temporary stability … but it is unbalanced”.

The German bank Berenberg said the deal brought to an end the “crippling uncertainty” but said it was a victory for Trump.

“It is great to have a deal. In two major respects, however, the outcome remains much worse than the situation before Trump started his new round of trade wars early this year,” said Holger Schmieding, Berenberg’s chief economist.

“The extra US tariffs will hurt both the US and the EU. For Europe, the damage is mostly frontloaded,” Schmieding said in a note to clients on Monday morning.

“The deal is asymmetric. The US gets away with a substantial increase in its tariffs on imports from the EU and has secured further EU concessions to boot. In his apparent zero-sum mentality, Trump can claim that as a ‘win’ for him,” Schmieding added.

The Italian bank UniCredit also said Trump had got the better out of the EU.

skip past newsletter promotion Sign up to Business Today Free daily newsletter Get set for the working day – we'll point you to all the business news and analysis you need every morning Enter your email address Sign up Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy . We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. after newsletter promotion

“Is this a good deal for the EU? Probably not. The outcome is heavily asymmetrical, and it leaves US tariffs on imported EU goods at much higher levels than EU tariffs on imports from the US,” UniCredit said in a note to clients.

“Fifteen per cent is not to be underestimated, but it is the best we could get,” the European Commision president, Ursula von der Leyen, acknowledged.

Initially the EU had tried to hardball the US by threatening but pausing €21bn (£18bn) worth of retaliatory measures in April, and adding another list of €73bn-worth of US imports that would be taxed earlier this month.

But it pivoted to a quick UK-style deal after the Nato summit in June, swapping a comprehensive trade deal for security and defence promises from Trump.

By contrast, China, which threatened the US with a cascade of punitive tariffs, is still negotiating with Trump, who over the weekend froze technology transfer restrictions to create space for a deal with Beijing.

Berenberg said the deal would affect the German economy, but the decline in growth would be offset by the Bundestag’s recent growth stimulus package, it added.

The EU had pushed for a compromise on steel that could allow a certain quota into the US before tariffs would apply.

Trump appeared to rule that out, saying steel was “staying the way it is”, but von der Leyen insisted later that “tariffs will be cut and a quota system will be put in place” for steel.

He also ruled out a carve-out for pharmaceuticals but later von der Leyen said the 15% tariff would apply to EU medicine exports and that any other tariffs were up to the US president.

The EU is now subject to a 25% levy on cars, 50% on steel and aluminium, and an across-the-board tariff of 10%, which Washington had threatened to increase to 30% in a no-deal scenario.

The bloc had been pushing hard for tariff carve-outs for critical industries from aircraft to spirits, and its car industry, crucial for France and Germany, is already reeling from the levies imposed so far.
